male narrator:
The Angels are searching
for America's best
tattoo artists...
- Hello, Portland!
[cheers and applause]
narrator: And doing some
good along the way.
- Your canvases today have
a loved one with autism.
- This is my
brother Garth.
- Garth.
- He's autistic.
- Yes.
- He's my best buddy.
narrator: Tonight,
three local artists...
- I opened my own studio
when I was 19 years old.
- I follow you on Instagram.
She's pretty solid.
- I got a few stepping stones
over here
I've got to take care of,
but I'm ready to just
smash this competition.
narrator: Will compete for the
chance to take on an Angel.
- It's downright titillating.
Break out your tassels.
narrator: And defeating
an Angel
will earn them a spot
on "Ink Master.
[electronic music]
[doo-wop music]
♪ ♪
[electronic music]
- Portland is wacky.
They're strange,
and they love it.
- Yeah.
- And I think that's something
that we can really
identify with here.
- I'm really hoping that
someone can kind of step up
to the weird plate with me.
♪ ♪
- My name is Emily Kaul,
and I've been tattooing
for six years.
I'm known for
my botanical illustrations
with watercolor elements.
I didn't take a conventional
route in my art--
in my relationship, even--
and I'm still a success.
I want other people to know
that that's possible.
- Hi!
- Oh, hey there.
- Hi. Welcome.
- It's so good
to meet you guys.
- Nice to meet you.
- I'm so excited.
- Tell us about yourself.
- I opened my own studio
when I was 19 years old.
- Whoa.
- Dang.
- So, have you ever
competed before?
- I have not, no.
This is going to be
my first time competing.
- I like it.
This kind of matches up with,
you know, how you opened up
your shop.
You just kind of, like,
dive in feet-first, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
- I love it.
- Why not?
- Yeah.
♪ ♪
- I'm Risa Stevens,
and I've been tattooing
for 12 years.
I'm known for my realism.
I'm one of the best
in Portland
because my artistry really
shines in my work.
I do cool tattoos
on cool people.
- Hi.
- Hi, everybody.
- Hello.
- Hi.
- So nice to meet you.
- You too.
- I've seen some of your work.
I'm Risa.
- You're familiar
with her work?
- Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I follow
you on Instagram.
- What do you think?
- She's pretty solid.
- Have you always tattooed
in Portland?
- Yeah, I've been
an artist my whole life,
and I wound up teaching art
for four years
before I started tattooing.
- Oh, wow.
- Cool.
- So you have
a strong art
background behind you.
- I'm super stoked
to be here.
- Well, we're stoked
to have you.
♪ ♪
- I'm Austin Rose, and I've
been tattooing ten years.
What I'm sought after for
is my black and gray.
I never really had natural,
innate ability to draw.
What I did have was
the ability
to work really [bleep] hard.
I am ready to
eat my competition alive.
Hi.
- Welcome.
- Oh, hey there.
- This is awesome.
I'm ready to compete
at the highest level, and you
guys are top of the food chain.
I've got a few stepping stones
over here
I've got to take care of,
but I'm ready to just
smash this competition.
- Well, you guys ready
to find out how
this competition works?
- Absolutely.
- All right.
So there's going to be
two elimination tattoos,
and one artist will
be eliminated each round.
And whoever can survive all of
this crazy madness
is going to face off against
one of us Angels.
And if you can beat one of us,
you get a spot on "Ink Master"
and a shot at $100,000.
- Yes.
- Are you guys excited
to find out
which Angel you'll be
facing off against?
- Absolutely.
- The Ink Master, Ryan Ashley!
[laughs]
- I'm ready to compete.
Hopefully, all of you guys
are ready to compete,
'cause we're about to start
the first elimination
challenge.
- Bring it on.
- I'm under the impression
that Portland
is one of these cities
where you guys like to
recycle and reinvent
and bring back, you know,
nostalgic stuff.
- Accurate.
- Your first elimination
tattoo is...
plaid tattoos.
- What?
- The hashtag?
- Yes, plaid.
- And you, uh,
you got two hours to do this.
You ready? [chuckles]
- I'll bring it.
- All right.
- I'll give it to you.
- We are going to be
judging you
on four specific criteria:
line work, shading,
your style,
and your overall
application of these tattoos.
- You guys are from
Portland,
so you damn well better
be really creative
and give me something
exciting to do with plaid,
so help me God.
- I've got some things in
mind to blow you guys' minds.
- Remember, somebody will
be eliminated today.
- Your canvases are
completely open,
and they've
been randomly assigned.
So, get set up,
and we'll send them in.
[determined electronic music]
♪ ♪
- All right, artists.
You have two hours
to do plaid tattoos,
any style.
And your time starts now.
- I went with a lady head.
- Oh, awesome.
- Wearing a plaid bandana.
- Here is the design
that I made.
- That's so cute.
- You like it?
- Yeah.
- Plaid is tricky,
because basically,
it's just a bunch
of parallel lines
that have to be
really, really precise.
- Some detail in this plaid.
- We really are some kind
of monster, assigning this.
- I'm just going to start
you with a little poke.
Give you a feel for it.
- [laughs]
[bright electronic music]
♪ ♪
- The design that I chose,
it's simple,
but I feel like it also shows
a lot of fundamentals
of tattooing.
I remember being a little kid
and going to church,
and them saying, "Okay, well,
"you don't have
to pay attention,
"but if you're not going
then you have to draw."
So I was like, "[bleep], yeah."
Like, "I'll draw."
A lot of what my style is
is going super simple,
and it's important for me
to show me.
[piano music]
A big part of
this competition for me
is showing all the people
in my life
who thought I was going
to fail in some way...
to show them that I'm here.
I didn't.
- Oh, you were just
telling me about this one.
- Yeah.
I've always wanted to
figure out a cool way
to maybe, like, pickle these
or something like that.
People have underestimated me
a lot throughout my life,
and...I have
to prove them wrong.
♪ ♪
[energetic music]
- My last name's Rose.
People tend to gravitate
towards roses.
- Whoo.
Are you doing a
plaid rose over there?
- Negative.
I mean, if I was,
it was gonna be
the best one you saw.
- Right, right.
- I'm gonna execute every
[bleep] line
like my life is
on the line.
- There you go.
- I [bleep]ed around
my entire life.
Got into drugs.
Tattooing made me see
I needed to change my life.
If I don't win, I'm going to
feel like a failure,
and I'm not a failure.
I've worked very hard
to prove I'm not a failure.
♪ ♪
- You guys have one hour left.
- Just a little bit
of line work.
Just a little detail.
Realistic animal portraits
are something I specialize in
that my competitors do not,
and so I'm feeling
really confident.
- Ooh, you [bleep]ing around?
- No, I am not, ma'am.
It feels great
to be putting myself
back in competition again.
[dreamy electronic music]
I grew up in my mom's studio.
She was
a stained-glass artist.
Losing her took a lot
of the wind out of my sails,
creatively.
Now, I'm feeling like
I'm coming out of
that darkness,
and I can hear her whispering
in my ear,
"Go for it.
You can do it."
♪ ♪
[energetic music]
- Five, four,
three, two, one.
That's it!
Stop tattooing.
- Pow!
That's a [bleep]
beautiful tattoo,
if I do say so myself.
And I did it, so I do.
- Thank you for
being my canvas.
- Super clean.
I win!
[tense music]
- I do specifically remember
saying plaid tattoos,
but the first thing
that pops out to me
is definitely not plaid.
- Austin, I think,
had the most creative
usage of the plaid.
- I do like that he had a very
faint fold in the fabric.
- But Austin's line work
wasn't as clean as Emily's.
- The plaid in Emily's
definitely takes
the biggest back seat,
which makes sense,
because it's the only one
that has a backseat.
- Half of the plaid,
she forgot to include.
The pattern changes halfway
through the camper.
- I would take Emily's plaid
over Risa's plaid all day.
There's no real
difference in values
in between those lines
where plaid is supposed to be.
I really got skimped
on the plaid.
I want some more plaid.
- You guys are
brave to be here--
to go up against me.
- Mister, like,
"I'm gonna do a girl
with a headband,"
and like that's original?
I've never seen that before.
- I wasn't going
for originality.
I was going for a solid,
beautiful tattoo.
- Okay.
- You played it safe, buddy.
- All right, guys.
- Hi.
- Hello.
- You want to talk tattoos
with us?
- Can I just defend the fact
that I used a lady's head?
I mean, we came to do tattoos.
- I'm not mad at anybody's
subject matter.
- The creativity was not
lacking at all today.
- The three of us have come
to a decision.
The winner of today's
elimination tattoo is...
Austin.
- [bleep] yeah.
- Really creative play
of using that plaid.
It was right smack-dab
in the middle,
and it was one of your most
shining moments in the tattoo.
- After I saw their tattoos,
I knew I was gonna win.
- Emily had you
on line work, though.
- Emily, it's cute as hell.
The thing is, because
it's so minimalistic,
there's just not
a lot to judge on.
- And Risa,
doing a realism tattoo
with bold lines?
Thank you.
But it looks a little bit
hard to really decipher.
What are the highlights?
What are the dark parts?
It just really needed
a little bit less
and a little bit more shading.
- Emily, Risa,
one of you will be eliminated.
The artist that will be
eliminated today is...
♪ ♪
- The artist that will be
eliminated today is...
Risa.
- I thought I won this round.
- I think maybe what happened
is your mind created
this tattoo with a big,
red plaid shirt
and a background
and all of these things.
- I just got so much into
the thought of getting
back into it,
and so it's disappointing
to feel like that's cut short.
- You took
a big step today,
showing the entire
world yourself and your work.
This wasn't a little step.
No matter the outcome,
this was a big step.
- You should be really
proud of yourself.
We more than value
your opinion,
and that's why we would love it
if you would join us
at the Angel face-off
and help us judge.
- Absolutely.
- Good.
- Then I take everything back
that I said about your tattoo.
- Yeah...
[laughter]
- Thank you guys.
- Thank you.
- Thanks.
- See you later.
- I got back up
on the horse,
which is the hardest part.
The most important thing is,
I can still hear the voice
of my mom
saying she's proud of me.
- Congratulations, you guys.
You made it.
- I'm kind of a little shocked
that I'm still here.
- Why are you shocked?
- I think I tend
to underestimate even myself.
- You did show us
beautiful line work,
and your composition
was absolutely gorgeous,
so, I mean,
take that to the bank.
- Thank you.
- All right, guys.
You ready for your next
elimination tattoo?
- Hell, yeah.
- Yes.
- This is gonna be
a four-hour tattoo.
The weather isn't
the only thing
that makes it rain
here in Portland.
Portland is known
for its overabundance
of adult entertainment clubs.
So, in honor of that,
you guys are gonna be tattooing
burlesque pinups.
- [exhales]
Ooh, that's a rough one.
- Decadent, beautiful outfits,
beadwork, feathers.
- It's exciting
and downright titillating.
- [groans]
- So that's what
we're looking for
out of your tattoos.
Break out your tassels!
[laughter]
- All right, we have one
more surprise for you guys.
Austin, you were the winner
of the first elimination
challenge.
You get the power
to choose one element
that must be included
in both of your tattoos.
- Yes.
- Remember: strategy.
- I think you need to
put some beadwork in it.
- Beadwork!
- Ooh.
- Four-hour burlesque pinup
including beadwork.
- That's a ballsy choice.
- That is a very ballsy choice.
- It's difficult.
I know I can pull it off.
I'm not so sure about her.
- Her line work was
pretty clean today.
- Good line work.
- I think you just
shot yourself in the foot.
- We'll see about that,
won't we?
- All right, well,
good luck to you both.
We'll see you tomorrow.
[tense music]
[twangy music]
♪ ♪
- Whoo!
- Burlesque day.
- Portland has more strip
clubs per capita
than anywhere
else in the country,
so I feel like they're
going to have kind of a leg up.
Or maybe two legs up.
Maybe it's one of
those kind of shows, huh?
- We'll see what these
artists bring in today.
♪ ♪
- Hey, guys.
- Hey, how's it going?
- Hey.
- Good.
How are you guys feeling today?
- I'm super excited
to be able
to show you all my color work.
Color is something that
I'm known for here in Portland.
- That's a little flip
of the switch...
- Oh, yeah.
- You feeling confident
on the subject matter he chose.
- Oh, I'm 100% confident
my tattoo's going to win.
- Hopefully you guys
bring it today.
- I mean, I hope the pressure
isn't getting to you guys,
because we do have
yet another surprise
in store for you.
- Shut up.
- Oh, boy.
- Because Portland is so
creative and so unique,
we figured we would bring in
a super creative and unique
special guest
to help us judge.
- Who is this gonna be?
[tense music]
- She specializes
in freehand
and surrealism tattooing...
- Okay.
- And is world-renowned.
♪ ♪
- She also competed
on season seven
of "Ink Master."
♪ ♪
Megan Jean Morris.
- Oh, my God.
- Yeah!
- There she is.
- Hi!
Hi, guys.
- In your Technicolor glory.
- Hell yeah.
- Love it.
- What are you gonna be
looking for in these tattoos?
- Application is really
first and foremost.
And then a heavy second:
to get that creativity
in there.
You know, you're under
so much pressure
with the time restraints.
Like, I do what I do,
but to be able to do it quickly
is a whole nother animal.
- Once of you is going
to face off against Ryan.
And if you can beat Ryan,
then you're gonna get
a shot on "Ink Master,"
and that means a chance
at winning $100,000.
So that's all right
on your shoulders today.
- I could span a bridge
across these shoulders.
I think it's okay.
- Your canvases have
been randomly assigned,
and they're totally open.
Go set up,
and we'll send them in.
♪ ♪
- All right, artists.
You have four hours
to tattoo burlesque pinups
with beadwork.
And your time starts now!
- Here is the design
that I have.
- Beadwork is concentric
circles
over and over and over.
- I like it.
- Pinups are one of
the hardest things
you can tattoo,
because you have
to nail the anatomy
of every single body part.
If you mess up
any of those elements,
you got a jacked up
burlesque dancer,
and she ain't gonna get paid.
- You ready?
- I'm ready.
- Okay.
[bright music]
♪ ♪
- Based off of what
I saw yesterday,
I think Emily's going to do
a very simplistic tattoo.
That's why I'm going to do
a complex tattoo.
I've got beadwork,
I've got anatomy,
ripped muscles,
and the feather boa.
- Oh, wow.
- I decided to do a little more
fit, sculpted, muscular girl.
- She is jacked, huh?
- You went pretty detailed
on this one.
- I did.
- Oh, this is really small.
- I make it look good,
and I make it last.
If I don't beat Emily,
I won't advance
in this competition,
and that's not
what I came for.
I came here to beat the best,
which is Ryan, not Emily.
♪ ♪
- All right,
you guys have two hours left.
Two little hours left.
♪ ♪
- I have to prove that
there's more to me
than just pulling clean lines.
My tattoos can have more
dimension.
They can have color.
They can have shading.
- Are you feeling good about
the time you have left?
- Nope.
- No?
- I appreciate
your candor.
- Are you freaking
out a little bit?
- Yeah, I am.
I might have made
my tattoo too big,
but at the same time,
I couldn't have made it
any smaller, because then
I would've lost all my detail.
- Well, hurry up, honey.
- [laughs]
- Time is a-tickin'.
- I'm nervous that I'm not
gonna be able to pull it off.
[energetic indie pop]
♪ ♪
- Judge away.
- Oh, I am.
Don't worry.
No worries.
- There's not an eye roll
big enough
for how I feel about Austin.
- It's beautiful...
but I don't think
it's gonna win.
- He is embodying
the epitome
of what I ran away from
when I opened my own shop,
and I'm [bleep] over it.
- You are down to 30 minutes.
30 tiny, helpless minutes.
- [bleep].
I need get it on, eh?
♪ ♪
- I'm worried
about Emily finishing.
I'm worried about
Austin finishing too,
because he's got a lot
to work out
to make that thing readable.
Because right now,
I can't tell what's going on.
- It's a tight race.
♪ ♪
Five, four,
three, two, one.
That's it!
Stop tattooing!
- Whoo.
- Made it.
- Did you bring
a winning piece?
- I think so.
How about you?
- Oh, yeah, for sure.
100%.
- Okay.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- How you feeling, Emily?
- Feeling pretty nervous.
- That kind of seems
like a baseline for you.
- I'm confident on
how to shade boobs,
but the arms and the face,
I definitely
kind of choked up.
- I like the face.
The shapes are right,
and she's pretty.
- The texture
and the grittiness
of the black and gray looks
expertise.
The line work
in there is perfect.
- Everything in there
is just so clean
and so nicely rendered,
but you don't have
a lot of beads.
The beads that you do have
are gorgeous,
and so I would say that's
a bit of a missed opportunity.
- Yeah.
- You showed us
an entire range of abilities
that you didn't show us
yesterday,
and that's huge.
- Thank you.
- All right, well,
let's check out Austin's.
- I love that
you chose to do a really buff,
ripped burlesque dancer.
She looks rad.
- You do show off
a lot of skill here.
It's three-dimensional.
It's all consistent,
stylistically.
But the first thing
that I'm not a fan of
is the background competing
with the main image.
You kind of shaded
them the same.
- But that lady face?
Incredible.
- She's beautiful,
and she's only got
a face that big.
That is not easy.
- Two good tattoos.
We have to come to a decision.
Ready?
- Yep.
- All right, guys.
So, what do you think?
- I'm finding a lot more
problems in Emily's tattoo
than I am with Austin's.
That's just how I feel.
- Well, I will
see myself out,
because I am in
utter disagreeance.
- Are you kidding me?
- Nothing in Austin's
tattoo that I look at,
and I'm like, "Whoa!",
other than the concept.
But when I look
at Emily's tattoo,
I go straight to the torso,
and I look at the chest
and I look at the tassels.
I look at the beads.
I look at the shadow under
the boobs,
and I'm stoked.
- You're making
me hold my breath.
- Okay, I'm trying to explain
that I do have reasons.
- I'm just impressed
you can talk that much
without taking a breath.
- I have a very
overbearing mother.
- You're not a better
tattooer than I am--not by far.
I made some poor choices,
and that's the only reason
it's this close.
- It's kind of ridiculous
that you are saying
the only reason that
I have been successful
is because you made mistakes.
To me, that just kind of goes
to show that,
like every other man I've
dealt with in the industry,
you're just trying to tell me
that I'm lesser,
that I can't do it.
Even just the fact
that it is a close race,
I think that shows that
I am a force to reckon with.
- Hey, guys.
- It was a close call.
We really did battle it out.
We want to be able
to argue over good tattoos,
and that's exactly
what happened here today.
- I feel that she brought
her "A" game and it fell short.
- I think I should win
this round
because it's more readable.
The image itself is
more aesthetically pleasing.
- You are right about all
of those positive attributes.
The problems were
that you showed us
a bunch of different
skill sets that you had,
but they didn't
come together
to make the piece look
believable and confident.
- Austin, I was so in love
with the concept
that you came up with,
but then you brought it down
into all of these teeny,
tiny little parts
and it became difficult
for me to read.
It is a close  race.
- We've decided that the winner
of today's elimination
tattoo is...
[rock music]
♪ ♪
- The winner of today's
elimination tattoo is...
Austin.
- Thank you.
- We loved your drawing.
We loved all
the different textures
that you put into the tattoo.
You gave us a buff
burlesque dancer.
- Am I excited?
Yes.
Am I nervous to go up
against the best of the best?
Yeah.
Am I ready?
Abso-[bleep]ing-lutely.
- Putting it out
on front street:
I was hardcore
in your corner.
But in the end,
there were issues,
and a lot of it felt like
it was confidence-based.
And that's what tipped
the scales--not for me,
for them.
- I'm a little
disappointed for sure,
but I feel pretty good
about taking the feedback
that I've gotten
and running with that.
This changes the way
that I see myself.
I can hold my own,
and I know that now.
I'm ready to continue growing
into the artist
that I've always known
I could be.
- We would love if you could
come and help us judge
at the Angel Face-off.
- Absolutely.
- I'm ready to win.
- So am I.
- Yeah, but you've
done it before.
It's my turn.
- I'm pretty good
at standing my ground.
- You may be getting soft.
Who knows?
Bring it,
'cause you're gonna need it.
- Ooh, spicy.
- Not my first fight
of the day,
that's all I'm gonna say.
Listen,
I fought for you.
Now you're gonna threaten me?
- It's not a threat.
It's a promise.
I don't make threats.
- Well, we'll see
you at the face-off.
- I look forward to it.
[synth music]
♪ ♪
- This is nice.
It's very Portland.
- I'm excited to tattoo.
- I can't wait to see
what Austin brings.
- Well, he came at me like
he really has something
to prove today,
so I'm hoping for a good fight.
- Yeah.
♪ ♪
- Hey, guys.
- Hey there.
- You ready, Austin?
- Are you ready?
- I'm always ready.
- So am I.
- Austin, if you beat Ryan,
you get a spot on "Ink Master,"
and that's a shot at $100,000.
- I love money.
- Make Portland proud,
and make us proud
that we chose
you to be the person
to face off today.
- I'm not only here to
represent Portland,
but I'm also here
to represent our artists.
- I would like you to just
speak for yourself right now,
because personally, I would
rather be represented by Ryan.
So, for my sake,
please kick his ass.
- Zing.
- There's vinegar
somewhere in this bar.
It'll neutralize the burns.
- All right, you guys, so
here's how the face-off
is gonna be determined.
Our locals not competing
are gonna get one vote
collectively.
Angels not competing are gonna
get one vote collectively.
And we have a big honkin' crowd
coming in,
and they're gonna get
one vote collectively.
- Yes.
- You guys are gonna have
six hours to tattoo
whatever your canvas wants.
But there is another reason
that we had to find
the best artist in Portland.
- Oregon has the second-highest
rate of autism in the country.
Your canvases today have
a loved one with autism.
- Well, thank you all so much
for being here.
Can we please
hear your stories?
- I'm Jeremy, single
father of two wonderful boys.
They both have autism,
and they inspire me
to live my life
to the fullest every day.
- Hi, I'm Tamara,
and this is my brother Garth.
- Garth.
- Garth is my best buddy.
He's autistic.
- Yes.
- Thank you all so much
for being here.
We really, really
appreciate it.
- Thank you for having us.
- All right, Austin,
since Portland's your city,
you get to pick a skull.
The name on the bottom
of the skull
will be your canvas today.
- Tamara.
- All right, Jeremy,
you're with me.
- All right.
- Well, let's get started.
Good luck to you both.
- All right.
- When our parents died,
Garth became
my responsibility.
There's many levels
to autism,
and people don't realize that,
and they feel like people
with autism aren't normal.
Garth is so normal,
it's not even funny.
He has such a golden heart.
I couldn't imagine him
not in my life.
- What kind of tattoo can
I make to honor you and Garth?
- Well, I'm thinking
I want, like, a tree
to represent the growth
that Garth and I have had
in our relationship.
I would like to have
a picture of a boy
at the base of the tree
with headphones on,
and books around the tree.
Books and music are Garth's
favorite things,
and the boy represents, to me,
the innocence of a child.
- I love this idea.
I love drawing trees.
- Two autistic sons.
- Yeah, I went ahead
and had them tested.
You know, I seen
that there was something
a little off about them.
They didn't play with toys
like normal kids did.
It's not that
I don't love them.
I want to--you know,
if there is something
with them, I want to get them
the help that they need.
- Yeah, you want
the best for them.
- Yeah.
Come to find out
that they were both autistic.
- How did you feel when
you got the news?
- Honestly, I felt relieved.
Got them into getting
the help they needed.
- And you've been
a single dad.
- For the past 11 years.
- You are a strong man.
- I try to be.
- So, let's talk about
your design.
What would you
like to get done today?
- I was thinking about a dragon
guarding two eggs.
- So each egg represents
one of your boys,
and the dragon--
- Basically is me.
- Are you ready to see?
- Yes.
Wow.
- I went with
more of a deciduous, like,
oak-style tree.
- Yeah.
- I figured it'd be
a spring tree with new buds
coming through.
- You absolutely
nailed it.
- Exactly what I like to hear.
- This is the design
I came up with,
and I feel like
it has the power it needs.
- I like the colors.
It's almost exactly what I had
pictured in my head.
- Really?
- Yeah.
- Well, if you're ready,
I am definitely ready.
- I was born ready. [laughs]
- Yeah?
All right, let's do it.
♪ ♪
- All right, good.
Now I feel comfortable
beating you in front
of my people.
- Hello, Portland!
[cheers and applause]
We have two amazing artists
ready to do some awesome
tattoos for you guys.
- On this side,
we have Austin Rose.
[cheers and applause]
- On this side, we have
"Ink Master" season eight
winner, Ryan Ashley.
[cheers and applause]
- And we need you guys here,
because at the end
of these tattoos,
you get to decide
which tattoo you like best.
[cheers and applause]
- You have six hours to tattoo,
and your time starts now.
- I got a new fan club
over here.
- Yeah.
- You didn't know
that was gonna happen,
but it is your city.
- I figured.
- Right.
- I've met me.
I'm pretty--I'm pretty awesome.
- Yes, it lines up perfectly!
- Sweet.
- She's a beast.
- I haven't done a tattoo
like this in a long time.
- That's why it's gonna
be sad to beat her.
- It's now or never.
♪ ♪
- Portland pride,
Portland pride!
There it is.
- Yeah!
[machine buzzing]
[cheers and applause]
♪ ♪
- Portland loves me,
but this is a small pond.
I'm a big fish, and I need to
make my way to the ocean.
"Ink Master" is
the Pacific Ocean.
I've sharpened my skills
for ten years
to win this competition today.
- It's gonna look so
pretty once it's done.
- Yes.
♪ ♪
- Hour down, huh?
- It does not feel
like an hour's gone by.
I'm trying to defy
a lot of odds.
I'm not a color artist.
This couldn't be any more
out of my wheelhouse, for real.
I made my stencil
very confusing.
This is a lot to look at.
I'm taking a double take
on it in a couple spots,
being like, "What did I mean by
that little mark right there?"
♪ ♪
- How are you doing over there?
- Are you talking to me?
- No, I was
talking to her.
- Oh, I wasn't sure
if you were taking a break
from jerking yourself off
over there.
[crowd exclaims and laughs]
- Never take a break
from that, ever.
I'm like, my biggest fan.
- I know.
You've just been
busy tooting your own horn,
you know what I'm saying?
- I've got to have
someone do it.
- Why does everybody think this
mother[bleep]'s a superstar?
I mean,
fake it 'till you make it,
you know what I'm saying?
♪ ♪
- Oh, my God.
- What's up?
- Oh, my God, it hurts
every time you touch it.
- Just hang out.
Don't wor--don't stress on it,
okay?
My canvas is not sitting well.
She is moving a lot.
Every time I touch her,
she twitches.
- Oh, son of a bitch.
- If I can't pull out all
the stops,
there's no way I'm gonna
beat an Ink Master.
- Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
I can't.
- This is freaking me out.
- [groans]
♪ ♪
- Oh, my God.
Breathe, breathe, breathe.
I feel like I'm gonna pass out.
- Take some breaths.
[moody music]
♪ ♪
Take a deep breath.
I have two pieces I definitely
need to hit
before I can call
this a complete tattoo, okay?
- Okay.
- You only have one more hour!
- [sighs] Here it goes.
[determined music]
♪ ♪
There is no part of
this tattoo
that I can mess up right now.
I can't mess the dragon up.
It's like a self-portrait
of him as a spirit animal.
Each of these eggs represents
one of my canvas's children.
You can't mess up
someone's child.
- [groans]
Oh, my God.
[groans]
Ow, okay, okay,
you got to stop.
You have to stop.
I'm done.
- I didn't have the opportunity
to put all of the details
and embellishments
into this tattoo
that I wanted to,
but I can't tattoo anymore.
The Ink Master's over there
beating my ass now,
and I'm just over here
twiddling my thumbs.
- That looks really good.
- You love it?
- Yeah, I do.
- Success anyways.
- I love the fact that
he's not touching it no more.
[laughter]
Thank you.
- Thank you.
- Thank you so much.
[applause]
- You are down to 30 minutes.
- I'm trying to go
as fast as I can,
and I know it's
probably way more painful.
- Hey, do what you got to do.
- I know.
- You're trying
to win this, right?
- I'm trying to finish this.
- [chuckling] Okay.
- No, I'm serious.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- Five, four,
three, two, one.
That's it!
Stop tattooing!
- [sighs] I'm so frustrated.
I'm [bleep] bummed.
I didn't plan accordingly
to finish this.
I'm just disappointed that
I couldn't give my canvas
everything he could
possibly ask me for,
because that's what
he deserves.
- Looks done, looks great.
[laughs]
- Yeah.
I'm sorry I didn't finish it.
I really tried.
- All right, Portland.
It's the moment that we've
all been waiting for.
Voting is officially open.
Let's check out these tattoos.
[cheers and applause]
- I think what I tried to do
was give him the best
12-hour tattoo I possibly
could in six hours.
- I've got to say, adding
the color with it--
having the contrast--
really helps pop it out.
It's really beautiful.
- Thank you.
- I voted for Ryan,
because her tattoo was
so meticulous in its detail,
and the shading really gave it
this three-dimensional pop.
- The detail down in the
diamond is incredible.
- I really like
the music notes.
They're so small and clean.
- Thank you so much.
- I voted for Austin because
I really liked the contrast
between the geometric shape
of that diamond
and the little natural shape
of the tree.
And I really liked how he was
able to bring so much depth
in a shape that was so skinny.
- It really is
a great start.
- Yeah, it is.
It's still the best tattoo
I've ever had.
- Where's the rest of it?
[laughs]
- I didn't finish it.
You didn't know?
- No, I've been over here
stressing the [bleep] out.
- Ryan's tattoo had
a lot of potential.
- I love the face
on the dragon.
It has that passionate,
protective energy to it.
- Ryan's piece
was more complex.
- It sucks, 'cause, like,
what do you do with, like,
60% of a gorgeous tattoo...
- Right.
- Versus something
so much less complex?
- Austin did pull off
a good piece.
From across the room,
you know exactly what it is.
You know that it's a tree.
- Right.
His lines were clean,
and there were a lot of
nice little details.
- It's gonna be a really
tough decision.
- It is.
- As we feared,
Ryan didn't finish.
But I do like
the position of the dragon,
and she gave us the
cool colors within those wings
so you can have
that glow effect.
- Ryan went for it
on every level.
But then we have someone
who played it so safe,
but I recognize it as a tree--
as a kid under the tree.
- He did tell a story
successfully.
You can tell
what the tattoo's about.
- This competition went ways
that I don't think
any of us expected.
- That's kind of the name
of the game, you guys.
All right, Portland.
Are you ready
to find out who won?
[cheers and applause]
- If Austin beats Ryan,
that means he secures
his spot on "Ink Master."
[cheers and applause]
- The decision
was unanimous.
crowd: Ooh!
- The winner of
the Angel Face-off is...
- I can only sweat so much.
- Austin.
[cheers and applause]
- This was just the beginning.
I want to become
an Ink Master.
I know it's not gonna be easy,
but I've never been scared
of hard work.
- Congrats.
- Thank you.
- Yes.
- I'm happy you won.
And I am so excited to see
what they have
in store for you.
- Yeah, I'm sure you are.
[laughs]
- I'm fine with losing.
I got knocked on my ass
a little bit--
not by Austin,
but by myself
and my own ambition.
- Honestly, you had
an amazing tattoo.
It just didn't get finished.
If you would've finished,
I would've gone home,
guaranteed.
- I don't believe a single word
that comes out of your mouth.
Today, I'm truly humbled
and shocked and disappointed
that I couldn't be
the tattooer on the pedestal
that everybody puts me on.
And I remembered how
hard tattooing is.
- Now the real
competition's here.
- Oh, this was nothing.
- [laughing] I know.